Feature/698 Machine Learning and Azure ML Profiling (#699)
microsoft/code-with-engineering-playbook: docs/machine-learning/ml-profiling.md

> # Profiling Data Science and MLOps Code

Reviewer: Suggestion: Rephrase to "Profiling ML and MLOps Code". The term "Data Science Code" might be ambiguous to some readers.

Author: Updated, thanks!

> Data Science projects, especially the ones that involve Deep Learning techniques, usually are very resource intensive. One model training iteration might be multiple hours long. Although large data volumes processing genuinely takes time, minor bugs and nonoptimal implementation of some functional pieces might cause extra resources consumption.

Author: Done, thanks!

Profiling can be used to identify performance bottlenecks and see which functions are the costliest in the application code. Based on the outputs of the profiler, one can focus on largest and easiest-to-resolve inefficiencies and therefore achieve better code performance.
Although profiling follows the same principles of any other software project, the purpose of this document is to provide profiling samples for the most common scenarios in MLOps/Data Science projects.

Below are some common scenarios in MLOps/Data Science projects, along with suggestions on how to profile them.

> - [Profiling Data Science and MLOps Code](#profiling-data-science-and-mlops-code)

Author: Updated, great idea, thanks!

  - [Generic Python profiling](#generic-python-profiling)
  - [PyTorch model training profiling](#pytorch-model-training-profiling)
  - [Azure Machine Learning pipeline profiling](#azure-machine-learning-pipeline-profiling)

## Generic Python profiling

Usually an MLOps/Data Science solution contains plain Python code serving different purposes (e.g., data processing) along

> with specialized model training code. Whereas many Machine Learning frameworks provide their own profiler,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with specialized model training code. Although many Machine Learning frameworks provide their own profiler,
```

not an English expert :) this sounded a lit more natural to me.

> sometimes it is also very useful to profile the whole solution.

Author: Done, thanks!

> There are two types of profilers: deterministic (all events are tracked) and statistical (sampling with regular intervals). In this

Author: Done, thanks!

document we'll cover an example of a deterministic profiler.

> There are many options of generic deterministic Python code profiling. The default option for profiling used to be a built-in

Reviewer: You mention that cProfile *used to be* the default option. From [this doc](https://docs.python.org/3/library/profile.html) it seems that both `cProfile` and `profile` are considered default. 

Maybe consider saying that cProfile is a suggested / popular / common profiling tool.

Author: Rephrased to _"One of the default options for profiling..."_, thanks!

[cProfile](https://docs.python.org/3/library/profile.html) profiler. Using *cProfile* one can easily profile
either a Python script or just a chunk of code. This profiling tool produces a file that can be either
visualized using open source tools or analyzed using `stats.Stats` class. The latter option requires setting up filtering
and sorting parameters for better analysis experience.

Below you can find an example of using *cProfile* to profile a chunk of code.

```python

> import cProfile

Reviewer: There's also the option of running it from the outside (`python -m cProfile [-o output_file] [-s sort_order] (-m module | myscript.py)`). Is this something worth considering here? Just a thought, not sure as the code is likely to be ran remotely and not by the user.

Author: Added, thanks a lot for the suggestion!

# Start profiling
profiler = cProfile.Profile()
profiler.enable()

# -- YOUR CODE GOES HERE ---

# Stop profiling
profiler.disable()

# Write profiler results to an html file
profiler.dump_stats("profiler_results.prof")
```

> Note: one epoch of model training is usually enough for profiling. There's no need to run more epochs and produce
additional cost.

> More information on *cProfiler*:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
More information on *cProfile*:
```

Author: Reworded using @PreteshPatel 's  suggestion, thanks!

- [The Python Profilers](https://docs.python.org/3/library/profile.html)

## PyTorch model training profiling

PyTorch 1.8 includes an updated PyTorch
[profiler](https://pytorch.org/blog/introducing-pytorch-profiler-the-new-and-improved-performance-tool/)
that is supplied together with the PyTorch distribution and doesn't require any additional installation.
Using *PyTorch profiler* one can record CPU side operations as well as CUDA kernel launches on GPU side.
The profiler can visualize analysis results using TensorBoard plugin as well as provide suggestions
on bottlenecks and potential code improvements.

```python
 with torch.profiler.profile(
    # Limit number of training steps included in profiling
    schedule=torch.profiler.schedule(wait=1, warmup=1, active=3, repeat=2),
    # Automatically saves profiling results to disk
    on_trace_ready=torch.profiler.tensorboard_trace_handler,
    with_stack=True
) as profiler:
    for step, data in enumerate(trainloader, 0):
        # -- TRAINING STEP CODE GOES HERE ---
        profiler.step()
```

> The tensorboard_trace_handler for analysis in TensorBoard. Those can be visualized by installing TensorBoard

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `tensorboard_trace_handler` can be used to generate result files for TensorBoar. Those can be visualized by installing the TensorBoard
```

plugin and running TensorBoard on your log directory.

```bash
pip install torch_tb_profiler
tensorboard --logdir=<LOG_DIR_PATH>
# Navigate to `http://localhost:6006/#pytorch_profiler`
```

> Note: make sure to provide right parameters to the `torch.profiler.schedule`. Usually you need several steps of training to be profiled rather than the whole epoch.

More information on *PyTorch profiler*:

- [PyTorch Profiler Recipe](https://pytorch.org/tutorials/recipes/recipes/profiler_recipe.html)
- [Introducing PyTorch Profiler - the new and improved performance tool](https://pytorch.org/blog/introducing-pytorch-profiler-the-new-and-improved-performance-tool/)

## Azure Machine Learning pipeline profiling

In our projects we often use [Azure Machine Learning](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/machine-learning/)
pipelines to train Machine Learning models. Most of the profilers can also be used in conjunction with Azure Machine Learning.
In a nutshell, you need to choose a profiler, that meets the following criteria:

> - The profiler can be enabled and disabled inside of the code

Reviewer: This isn't very clear. Do you mean that one can control whether the profiler is on or off using a parameter, or that certain parts of the code would be profiled and others won't? Consider rephrasing.

Author: Thanks! Great suggestion

- The profiler produces a file as an output

> The general recipe of using profilers with Azure Machine Learning is the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The general, a recipe for using profilers with Azure Machine Learning is the following:
```
